Document Semgrep CI settings (#109)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-ci.md

  Semgrep CI detects when it's running inside GitHub Actions or GitLab CI.
  When scanning a pull request,
  it reports only findings that were newly introduced.

> - **.semgrepignore**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Ignore files**:
```

  Semgrep CI will ignore files when scanning
  according to paths and patterns specified

>   in you repository's `.semgrepignore` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  in your repository's `.semgrepignore` file.
```

# Setup

## Automatic setup

You can add Semgrep CI to a GitHub repository by clicking "Set up"
on the [Projects page](https://semgrep.dev/manage/projects) of Semgrep App

!!! info
    This page will list only the repositories
    that Semgrep has permission to see.
    You can add repositories on your organization's settings page on GitHub.
    Just go to Settings > Installed GitHub Apps > semgrep.dev > Configure
    and make your changes in the 'Repository access' section.
  
You will get a chance to configure a few settings,
such as whether you want to run on pushes, on pull requests, or on both.
We recommend using Semgrep with the pre-selected settings.
When you're done, Semgrep will commit a CI workflow file to your repository.

!!! warning
    Semgrep cannot commit this file if there are
    branch protection rules preventing pushes to your default branch.
    In this case, you can temporarily disable your branch protection rules,

>     or follow our guide for manual setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    or follow the guide for manual setup.
```

## Manual setup

If you're using GitHub Actions,
you can generate and copy a CI configuration file on Semgrep App as above,
and then commit it manually.

If you're using any other CI provider,
you can use one of our [sample CI configuration files](sample-ci-configs.md).

# Configuration

Semgrep CI is configured with command line flags.
This is a reference for most common options,
but you can see all available settings with `--help`.

!!! info
    When you're configuring the semgrep-action,
    you set these options under the `with:` block
    of your workflow YAML file.

    Option names are camel-cased in the workflow configuration file.
    This means that `--audit-on push` changes to `auditOn: push`.

> ## Selecting rules to scan with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Selecting rules
```
maybe?

The `--config` flag lets you choose

> what rules and patterns semgrep should scan for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
what rules and patterns Semgrep should scan for.
```

You can set specify rules in one of the following ways:

> - **semgrep.dev ruleset ID**: `config: p/r2c`  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ruleset ID**: `config: p/r2c`  
```

  referring to a ruleset found on [semgrep.dev's rulesets page](https://semgrep.dev/explore)

> - **semgrep.dev snippet ID**: `config: s/xYz` or `config: s/john:named-rule`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **snippet ID**: `config: s/xYz` or `config: s/john:named-rule`
```

  referring to a rule published from the [semgrep.dev playground](https://semgrep.dev/editor)

> - **semgrep.dev registry ID**: `config: r/python.flask`  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **registry ID**: `config: r/python.flask`  
```

>   referring to a subset of the [semgrep.dev rule registry](https://semgrep.dev/r)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  referring to a subset of the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/r)
```

If `config` is unset,
the default behavior is to look for rules
in the `.semgrep.yml` file in your repo,
or load all rules from the `.semgrep/` directory in your repo.

If none of these provide a configuration,
Semgrep CI will exit with a failing status code.

## Connecting to Semgrep App

To use your Semgrep App account,
set `--publish-deployment` and `--publish-token`.
These act as your username and password for authentication.
You can find the right values for these variables
on the [Dashboard > Settings](https://semgrep.dev/manage/settings) page.

## Ignoring files & directories

> You can commit a `.semgrepignore` file

Reviewer: Must this file be in the root of the project or will Semgrep CI find it in a subfolder?

to skip scanning specific paths,
using the same syntax as `.gitignore`.

If there's no `.semgrepignore` file in your repository,
Semgrep CI uses a default ignore list
that skips common test and dependency directories,
including `tests/`, `node_modules/`, and `vendor/`.
You can find the full list in
[the `.semgrepignore` template file](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-action/blob/v1/src/semgrep_agent/templates/.semgrepignore).
To override these default ignore patterns,
commit your own `.semgrepignore`.

!!! warning
    `.semgrepignore` is picked up only by Semgrep CI,

>     and will not be honored when running Semgrep CLI manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    and is not honored when running Semgrep CLI manually.
```

## Ignoring specific rules in a ruleset or policy

You can customize the ruleset you're using
to ignore some of its rules
by [editing the Semgrep App policy](managing-policy.md/#editing-a-policy)
used for your scans.

## Getting notifications instead of blocking builds

Some rules point out hotspots that require careful review
but are not certain to be insecure code.
You might want to disable blocking when scanning with such rules,

> and instead use one of our [CI integrations](integrations.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and instead use a [CI integration](integrations.md)
```
